---
layout: post
title:  "Larry, Moe, and Curly"
date:   2024-06-17 01:30:55 -0500
categories: [money]
---
Perhaps the best history of the rise and fall of General Electric is William Cohan's 2022
prolix [***Power Failure***](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/609226/power-failure-by-william-d-cohan/){:ta rget="_blank"}, 
although for the reader with a shorter attention span, the Wall Street Journal's feature [***GE Powered the American
Century -- Then it Burned Out***](https://www.wsj.com/articles/ge-powered-the-american-centurythen-it-burned-out-11544796010) 
provides a nice overview. 

Amongst the tedious recounting of numerous GE managers' university and 
work experience, Cohan does a nice job tracing the interplay between 
GE's role building technology and providing financing for its customers.

*some appropriate anecdotes*

In the years between 1980 and 2000, the financial arm of GE, by then called
GE Capital, began to overwhelm the product side of the business, echoing the
decline of onshore manufacturing in the US and the concurrent rise of the 
banking and finance sectors. CEO Jack Welch exploited the ability of GE 
Capital to generate steady, predictable revenue from lending across markets 
unrelated to the core GE businesses, and to use those revenues to stabilize
GEs earnings.

His successor, Jeffrey Immelt, took over the company during the Summer of
2001,just before the 9/11. 

*how was GE impacted by 9/11, and how did this set the company up for
an even greater reconing during the 2008 financial meltdown?*

## The Welch Successors

### Immelt

### Flannery

### Culp



Key review points:

- Exhaustive treatment of early years, particularly the customer financing for providing power plants and local distribution.
- Long history of M&A on GE history
- Laborious disaquisitions on the personal lives of bit players, particularly those living.
- ** Need to spend more time looking at the Immelt succession story -- how did that happen?
- *** Beat out John McNerny, who went to 3M then Boeing, where
he led the 737Max, although his successor Muilenberg took the fall.
- *** not a detail guy. Impact of SUP (pension plan doled
out by CEO that paid huge post-retirement money if you stick around ' )\
- *** 2015 divestiture of 90% of GE Capital and expensive
complex Alstom acquisition, plus getting into bed with Trian.
- *** Immelt's signature failure was the long-term insurance debacle.
Or was it the Alstom debacle. Hard to say.

- ** Details of Alstrom acquisition
- ** Flannery succession
- *** Immelt resigned following the "pivot". Flannery was a GE lifer 
from capital. First person to really look at the businesses from
an operational point of view. Also correctly identified the three 
core businesses.
- Dismissive treatment of Culp -- was he using Flannery as a catspaw or did he simply execute the breakup plan originated by Flannery.
- ** Neither. Culp presumably saw Flannery's analysis, or maybe
it was so obvious a dog could see it. 
- ** Culp pushed out Flannery because he recognized

Thesis ideas:

- Conglomeration vs deconstruction. What is the relationship between how the individual components assembled to form GE and 
how did they spin apart to end it.
- GE management under Welch came to believe that the management themselves were the secret sauce. In fact, the unlocking of 
shareholder value by the breakup came with (perhaps because of) the destruction of centralized management. The individual companies 
are small enough that there is no place (spare cash flow) to build monuments to their management teams.
- To what degree has the emergence of more cost-effecctive software tools for basic back office functions along with SAAS products enable
- Look at total returns for GE stock purchased at the time of the big WSJ? article. About 400%.
- In the end, what GE leaders starting with Welch regarded as the 
core of GE's value (the management 'culture') was in fact what destroyed the company. People are all the same.

